Miranda/add data (#917)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/getting-started/add-data.md

# Add time-series data

> To help get you familiar with TimescaleDB's features, you’ll need some
> sample data to use. For this tutorial, we provide real-time 
> stock trade data (aka. "tick data") provided by [twelvedata][twelve-data] for 100 stock symbols for the most recent month. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore TimescaleDB's features, you need some sample data. This tutorial provides real-time 
stock trade data (also known as "tick data") from [twelvedata][twelve-data].
```

> ### About the dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About the dataset
```

Not skipping heading levels is preferable from a semantics and accessibility perspective

> The dataset contains tick level (second by second) stock trade data for the top 100 most traded symbols along with a separate table of company symbols and company names. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset contains second-by second stock-trade data for the top 100 most-traded symbols, in a hypertable named `stocks_real_time`. It also
includes a separate table of company symbols and company names, in a table named `company`. `company` is not a hypertable.
```

> There are two tables that you will ingest, a hypertable `stocks_real_time` and a regular table `company`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Details on the data set are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Table details
```

> `stocks_real_time`: Stock data indicating quotes for stock prices for a given second during trading hours

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`stocks_real_time`: Stock data. Includes stock price quotes at every second during trading hours.
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: Does it make sense to mention datatypes of these columns?

Author: I think that is a great idea!

Author: I think that is a great idea!

>     * time: timestamp column incrementing at a tick level (second by second)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * time: timestamp column incrementing second by second
```

>     * symbol: symbols representing a company, mappings found in the `company` table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * symbol: symbols representing a company, mapped to company names in the `company` table
```

    * price: stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp

>     * day_volume: how many shares are traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * day_volume: number of shares traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed
```

```

`company`: mapping for symbols to company names

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```bash
```

    * symbol: the symbol representing a company name
    * name: corresponding company name
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Access the dataset

```

<procedure>

### Accessing the dataset

> 1.  Before ingesting the data, you must create another table, `company`. Run the 
>     following SQL to do this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Before ingesting data, create another table named `company`. At the `psql` prompt, run:
```

Going to be more explicit about what is run where because they need to switch between `psql` and command prompt

Author: that's an excellent call

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS company (
        symbol text NOT NULL,
        name text NOT NULL
    );
    ```

> 1.  Download the following CSV files (in ZIP format). There are two files with company information and real-time stock trades for one month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Download the following `.zip` file. The file contains two `.csv` files: one with company information, and one with real-time stock trades for one month.
```

>     Download CSV: <tag type="download">[stock_data_real_time.zip](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/)</tag>

Reviewer: Formatting is slightly broken because of Markdown parsing. Pretty sure I know why, I'll put in a fix in the web-documentation repo
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26616127/157495312-3495b93f-adda-432a-b6b1-1c95fbfd5073.png)

Author: thank you!

Author: thank you!

>     Download CSV: <tag type="download">[stock_data_real_time.zip](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/)</tag>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Download: <tag type="download">[stock_data_real_time.zip](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/)</tag>
```

1.  After unzipping the files, use the following `psql` commands to insert the data into your 

>     TimescleDB instance. The code assumes your CSV files are in the current directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TimescleDB instance. If the `.csv` files aren't in your current directory, replace the file paths as needed:
```

# Add time-series data

To help get you familiar with TimescaleDB's features, you’ll need some

> sample data to play around with. For this tutorial, we provide real-time financial 
> stock data provided by ['Twelve Data'][twelve-data]. The data set contains time-series 
> stock prices from the last three months. 
> 
> <highlight type="note">
> For information on how to get more from 'Twelve data', check out our [tutorial][script-twelve-data] on how to 
> ingest stock data into TimescaleDB.
> </highlight>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sample data to use. For this tutorial, we provide real-time 
stock trade data (aka. "tick data") provided by [twelvedata][twelve-data] for 100 stock symbols for the most recent month. 
```

The time period will likely change as we import more data, but for now, we'll start with the previous month.

As for the highlight, I think we'll add that as a separate tutorial or final step 9 later. Open to input from @zseta

### About the dataset

> The dataset contains tick level (second by second) stock data along with further information on company symbols. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dataset contains tick level (second by second) stock trade data for the top 100 most traded symbols along with a separate table of company symbols and company names. 
```

There are two tables that you will ingest, a hypertable `stocks_real_time` and a regular table `company`. 

> Details on the data set are as follows:
> `stocks_real_time`: Stock data indicating quotes for stock prices for a given second during trading hours
>     * time: timestamp column incrementing at a tick level (second by second)
>     * symbol: symbols representing a company, mappings found in the `company` table
>     * price: stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp
>     * day_volume: how many shares are traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed
> 
> `company`: mapping for symbols to company names
>     * symbol: the symbol representing a company name
>     * name: corresponding company name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Details on the data set are as follows:

`stocks_real_time`: Stock data indicating quotes for stock prices for a given second during trading hours

```bash
    * time: timestamp column incrementing at a tick level (second by second)
    * symbol: symbols representing a company, mappings found in the `company` table
    * price: stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp
    * day_volume: how many shares are traded each day, NULL values indicate an after hours trade
```

`company`: mapping for symbols to company names

```bash
    * symbol: the symbol representing a company name
    * name: corresponding company name
```
```

Look at the formatting in the preview for this one. I was surprised to see some bash formatting cells (which is totally fine) but if that's what we want I think it probably needs to be specific to be safe.

<procedure>

### Accessing the dataset

1.  Before ingesting the data, you must create another table, `company`. Run the 

>     following code to do this. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    following SQL to do this. 
```

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS company (
        symbol text NOT NULL,
        name text NOT NULL
    );
    ```

> 1.  We provide CSV files for accessing the data. Download the CSV files (in ZIP format) 
>     below.
> 
>     Download CSV: <tag type="download">[stock_data_real_time.zip](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/)</tag>
> 
> 1.  After unzipping the files, use the following commands to insert the data into your 
>     TimescleDB instance. The code assumes your tables are in the current directory:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Download the following CSV files (in ZIP format). There are two files with company information and real-time stock trades for one month.

    Download CSV: <tag type="download">[stock_data_real_time.zip](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/)</tag>

1.  After unzipping the files, use the following `psql` commands to insert the data into your 
    TimescleDB instance. The code assumes your CSV files are in the current directory:

```

# Add time-series data

To explore TimescaleDB's features, you need some sample data. This tutorial provides real-time 
stock trade data (also known as "tick data") from [twelvedata][twelve-data].

## About the dataset

The dataset contains second-by second stock-trade data for the top 100 most-traded symbols, in a hypertable named `stocks_real_time`. It also
includes a separate table of company symbols and company names, in a table named `company`. `company` is not a hypertable.

### Table details
`stocks_real_time`: Stock data. Includes stock price quotes at every second during trading hours.

```bash

>     * time: timestamp column incrementing second by second

Author: ```suggestion
    * time (timestamptz): timestamp column incrementing second by second
```

>     * symbol: symbols representing a company, mapped to company names in the `company` table
>     * price: stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp
>     * day_volume: number of shares traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed

Author: ```suggestion
    * symbol (text): symbols representing a company, mapped to company names in the `company` table
    * price (double precision): stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp
    * day_volume (int): number of shares traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed
```

```

`company`: mapping for symbols to company names

```bash

>     * symbol: the symbol representing a company name
>     * name: corresponding company name

Author: ```suggestion
    * symbol (text): the symbol representing a company name
    * name (text): corresponding company name
```

    * name: corresponding company name
```

<procedure>

### Accessing the dataset

1.  Before ingesting the data, you must create another table, `company`. Run the 
    following SQL to do this. 

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS company (
        symbol text NOT NULL,
        name text NOT NULL
    );
    ```

1.  Download the following CSV files (in ZIP format). There are two files with company information and real-time stock trades for one month.

    Download CSV: <tag type="download">[stock_data_real_time.zip](https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/)</tag>

> 1.  Unzip the CSV files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  At the command prompt, unzip the `.csv` files:
```

    ```bash
    unzip stock_data_real_time.zip
    ```

> 1.  Use the following `psql` commands to insert the data into your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  At the `psql` prompt, insert the data into your 
```

    TimescleDB instance. The code assumes your CSV files are in the current directory:

    ```sql

>     -- copy data from stocks_real_time.csv into stocks_real_time table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Comments in our code blocks are really hard to read, so we prefer not to put them there, with the exception of "THIS DOES NOT WORK" comments. Normally I'd say move it it into the regular text, but I think this is self-explanatory enough that we don't need it

>     \copy stocks_real_time from './stocks_real_time.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV;
>     \copy company from './company.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \COPY stocks_real_time from './stocks_real_time.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV;
    \COPY company from './company.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV;
```

Author: I feel like we often used the lowercase 'copy' for the client based copy? @ryanbooz maybe you can comment here?

    ```

> 

Reviewer: Should we suggest that they preview the data with `SELECT * FROM ...` and show what the first few rows look like? I wouldn't suggest it for a how-to guide, but for a tutorial it's good to check in and make sure everything's good, plus it helps to get a sense of what the tables look like

Author: Since the next section is all about querying the data, I feel like I may like us to wait on it until then?

</procedure>

> Now that you’re up and running with data inside TimescaleDB let’s [start querying the data][query-data].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next steps
Now that you have data in your TimescaleDB instance, learn how to [query the data][query-data].
```
